Welcome back let's talk about another question I get asked a lot in interviews.
Tell me about a problem that you had and how you overcame it and or how you solved it.
Again a very common question.
How do you answer this.
Well we should know this by now.
They should be prepared.
We should be ready when they ask this question or any variation of this type of question.
Ideally you have a big project from a past company that you work with or a personal project that you
can answer this with.
Again going back to our portfolio and how we want to have wanted to big projects so we can answer questions
like these and also impress the interviewer.
And now with these type of questions we want to use something called the SAR method as a our method
that is situation action and result.
When asked this question we start off with the situation we tell the interviewer This is how the project
was.
This is the problem that we had.
This is a situation.
The second part is the action.
What did you do to solve that situation.
I did this high wrote a piece of software What did you do.
How did you try and solve.
And then the result is what happened after you took that action.
The number of users increased the performance of the website improved so Sarr situation action result.
This shows exactly what the problem is why you did with the problem and how you solved.
And you see over here the second point we want to have metrics and numbers.
If you're able to give numbers to the interviewer It sounds impressive.
If I say I improve the performance of a web site or I increase the number of users.
That doesn't sound impressive versus saying something like the Web site performance improved by 50 percent
or we increased our monthly active users by 30 percent again something that you can prepare ahead of
time in your stories.
This is why when I talked about the portfolios we want to focus on big projects versus many small projects
because when you get asked this question and your problem is that you had a difficult time building
a To Do list app or a small little app it's not going to sound impressive.
That's what everybody else does.
Instead talk about a real problem and that's something that we've built in past courses where we talked
about difficult problems as caching scaling performance security and these three over here scaling performance
security are really really good things to talk about if you're able to use one of these of how you improve
security how you improved performance how you improved scaling.
It's going to be really impressive because all companies have these problems and they want people that
can solve these type of problems.
You have to be careful here.
You can just make up stuff or say things that you cannot back up expect that once you answer this question
the interviewer is going to ask you more details about it.
So if you improved caching and the app to improve performance you better be sure that you're going to
get asked how you did it in more detail so be able to answer those.
But again with enough preparation this should be fairly easy to do.
As a side note if this problem happened to be with maybe a teammate or your work team wasn't performing
well don't be negative again.
Never place blame on clients or coworkers or bosses.
Just simply state the problem and say how you helped solved it.
People don't really want to work with complainers.
They want to work with people that just get to work solve problems and move on.
Keep in mind don't be robotic when answering questions.
Be human and a good way to think about this is if you saw yourself on TV answering this question will
you like yourself and that's really it.
So go out there have this question prepared because you're for sure going to get asked this question.
I'll see in the next video ok I lied.
There's one less thing and that is you're going to get a variation of this question such as.
Tell me about an interesting project you've worked on and they're very similar.
The goal here is to talk about an impressive project to wild the interviewer and tell them how a you're
different because you're building these interesting things but also how you've worked with what the
company is looking for in the past.
So you've worked with javascript you've worked with C-Sharp you've worked with C++.
Whenever you're talking about a project about a problem is solved.
You always want to bring it back to what the company right now is looking for because at the end of
the day that's what they care about they care about.
Can you solve the problems.
So again make sure you stand out and make sure you're related to the job.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.